# The Days and the Nights
It is 5:00 pm on Tuesday, October 27, 2020 in Texas. The sky is an inviting light bluish gray, an even blanket of clouds diffusing the sky's light over my neighborhood's elementary school. I hop off my bike and prop it up against a wall at the back of the building, slipping my phone out of my pocket to connect to the local Wi-Fi signal. At the same time, 3,000 kilometers away in California, it is 3:00 pm. Warm yellow light from the fading autumn sun beams into Darren Ung's bedroom, his back to the window and his laptop open. A mug of iced coffee is carefully balanced on his bedsheets. It doesn't take me long before I send him a message.

"Alright, Day," I text. "I'm at the location." Shortly after, we set up a call to test out recording our audio for an interview. I pace back and forth in anticipation as I try to think of what to say. This will be the first time I hear my best friend's voice.
Like most of my friends, I met Darren online, on December 5, 2019. After asking who he was, I accepted his friend request after he told me that he was introduced to me through a mutual friend of ours. He introduced himself with his username and clarified by saying it was a pseudonym, and thus, I could refer to him with whatever pronouns I liked. Already, I felt as if he was something of a mystery and became intrigued. He described his hobbies as "writing and reading, fanfiction, crochet, and thinking!" The last item stood out to me, since thought-provoking discussions were one of my favorite things. Soon, we began talking more regularly and got to know each other better, with tens of lines of hastily written lowercase messages filling each other's screens.

Darren is the first one to speak in the interview. "And we're recording. Okay." After I introduce him and myself on the call on our third attempt at starting it properly, I stumble through the beginning of the interview and ask Darren if he was ready for my first question. 

"Okay, so, when you imagine or visualize time, do you imagine it as an infinite straight line, or, uh, or a circle, or some other shape, or something different altogether?" I ask, while trying to perch myself in a comfortable seated position on my tilted bike. He responds with "something different altogether, because even though time is pretty linear, I don't really think it should be visualized that way." He says that "time is like the act of typing into a document ... and the movement and the typing of those letters behind the cursor is time." I knew Darren had a penchant for metaphor ever since we met. He would often describe his emotional state using colors, disquieted by how much gray he saw on certain days, or he would describe his mental space as a variety of different landscapes, from an ocean, to a desert, to a single bedroom. Every detail was chosen deliberately to paint a picture of his experiences. This one was no different, his passion for reading and writing becoming a natural source of inspiration.
Darren described himself as being a "Generic Asian" around my skin tone, Cambodian Chinese to be precise, 5 feet and 5 inches tall, with 7 moles framing his upper face, a scar on his nose, and short black hair. When I heard his voice for the first time, I felt a strong sense of deja vu, as if I were hearing a person who I was familiar with for years. His voice was slightly tinny and high-pitched with an almost undetectable rasp. Now, he was no longer text on a screen, but a living, breathing person with audible quirks and mannerisms. Before we did the interview, we took some time to test out the recording software we were using. This test quickly turned into us talking nonstop about a flurry of subjects as if we were right next to each other, brimming with enthusiasm. In the end, our conversation took almost as much time as the actual interview itself.

The second interview question I ask is about time travel, a favorite science fiction trope of mine. I ask Darren what time he would like to go back to and what he would change if he could. He hesitates a bit, admitting he "never really paid that much attention to history", before suggesting he'd want to see the fall of the Berlin Wall. I get off my bike and cut him off to correct my phrasing. I tell him I meant that I was asking "about the more personal aspect of time travel ... in the timeline of your own life." Darren pauses before admitting that "the fifth grade is when things really started to come apart" and he "started to aggregate all of these bad habits of procrastination and careless time management," something I empathize with. As I slip into steadily pacing back and forth, I hear the regret in his voice as he explains that "even if I could give myself advice then, it probably wouldn’t do anything" because he "started to disconnect and start ignoring" lectures from his parents. He uses another metaphor, "sand in a sieve," to describe his mind; a direct reference to Fahrenheit 451 that reveals more of his learned background. A technical error comes up soon after, forcing us to resolve it by restarting the call.

I didn't expect Darren to give that as his answer because I expected him to talk about his bad experiences with his past friend groups. These groups had more manipulative members, shaping him into becoming “apathetic, narcissistic, and somewhat manipulative in each of 3 friend group fallouts to keep from cracking." Even though I hadn't directly experienced anything like this, I sympathized with him and vowed to be a better friend, knowing that having genuine friends was likely important to him. Along with these events, he also felt regret over not being able to prepare for adulthood while he was in high school. I promised him that I would always support him, and that he wouldn’t run out of opportunities in life.

After we resolve the technical issues, I ask him why he would want to go back to fifth grade, even if he believes that he couldn't change anything back then. Nostalgia perhaps? He firmly denies this, saying that he would rather go back to "eighth grade or sophomore year." For him, eighth grade was the "cusp of teenage maturity," a time where "things really were simpler back then." He describes his second choice of sophomore year as "the most relaxed of any year of high school" in contrast to the other years that were more hectic.

His response to the next question is briefer. In the same vein as the question about the shape of time, we discuss the phrase "history repeats itself". He takes a few seconds to mull it over, then says he thinks he does. "Because humans, we're not as different as we'd like to believe we are, and so we're gonna wind up making the same mistakes over and over." He pauses again, hums, then elaborates: "History doesn't exactly repeat itself, but it does have some striking similarities. So maybe it's like rhyming." He tells me about his brother in 8th grade, someone who I haven’t talked about much with him, since we mostly prefer not to talk about our relatives.  He says he can see his brother making the same mistakes he did and how he tried to warn him. The analogy is extended with a mixture of bemusement and concern: "If I could keep him as non-rhyming and prosaic as possible that would be great."

I look out into the parking lot for a while, my eyes floating past the roofs of suburban houses and the tips of trees bordering on the sky’s haze as I try to recall the next question. When I ask him if he believes that events in the future are predetermined, he is quick to respond, then hesitates. For a moment, he turns the word "predestination" over in his head as he says it aloud. "No, well, I'd like to believe not," he answers. This piques my attention, because for a long time I held a nihilistic view of the world. But Darren thinks differently, something he's mentioned before.

"Again, I've told you this, but I really do think that... life isn't just set in stone. It seems like it's set in stone - and things just fall wherever, blocking the way, but I think that even if that does happen, there's still an element of control there. We have choices, we have windows of opportunity, and so we have to step up and take them." At some point, the sky turns an almost light gray and starts to rain. As the temperature starts to drop, I worry about the sound of the rain interfering with the recording.  My gaze drifts off to the concrete, focusing on a clear stream of water crossing the ground. I step closer to the wall, hoping that it will provide protection against the light wind. I wonder if Darren feels like he is in control most of the time, and soon, I get an answer. "Which is... kinda hard for me to say because I haven't been stepping up and diving through those windows of opportunity." He puts a flourish on the word diving, yearning to be the kind of person who takes chances with both courage and grace.

Darren, who was becoming more comfortable with the flow of the conversation, didn't mind that my next question was about our own mortality. "I guess I'm just trying to make the most of it," he answers. "Or, I would like to. My current situation is keeping me a bit stagnant." He tells me he would like it if the human lifespan was "doubled, at least, but that's probably not gonna happen." I mentally nod. He continues, stating what we both know to be true. "Yeah, you really have to make do with what you have cause it's just gonna fly by." After that, we share a few minutes of silence. Rain continues to fall, scattering the headlights of a parked car as I dismiss the urge to lean against my own silhouette on the brick wall. I hurriedly look back at my list of questions to make sure I know what to say next, then hear Darren frantically typing in response to what may be yet another technical error.

After we spend a minor amount of time trying to figure out if I had my settings configured incorrectly, we move onto the next question. "What does 'living in the present moment' mean to you?" I ask. He repeats the phrase aloud to himself, the familiar sign of the gears turning in his mind. "Probably just that in the literal sense," he says, which only confuses me. "Like being aware of everything around you - not everything - but being aware of the things in front of you enough that you're reacting with reality as it is right now instead of gallivanting off into the past or worrying about the future." I follow up by asking if he considers himself to be living in the present moment regularly. He clicks his tongue, inhales through his teeth with a nervous hiss, and says "ooh boy", giving away his answer before he says it. "Probably not, but it's not like, in a past-future way," he says. "I don't worry much about the past anymore and I can't really visualize big goals and big motivations and crazy jobs in the future, so... Technically I am in the present moment, I'm just so busy thinking all the time that I'm somewhat disconnected from it. There's a little bit of an airgap."

"Hm, I see," I respond knowingly. The cold winds pick up speed, nudging me into an alcove along the brick wall.

"So, another question about the nature of time itself..." I say, specifically mentioning how it appears to speed up and slow down. "Can you describe what affects your own perception of time in these ways?" I ask. Apparently, this strikes a chord with him. "So, actually, this is a great question because..." His voice quiets as he gets up quickly to close the door behind him, before sitting back down. "The reason why I didn't want to use linear metaphors in general is because it makes it seem like time is this constant thing. That's why I defaulted to the writing in a document thing, because it is partly subjective, there are going to be parts where you can't write, metaphorically, or everything just goes in a crazy torrent." He goes on to say that being in the present moment slows down time for him, because "you can really feel the seconds pass by... and I think that's what makes boredom feel so heavy on you." In contrast, multitasking and being highly engaged with whatever he's doing speeds up time for him. "Time is going to bleed away," he says. "And I think that it sucks that our perception does warp time based on what we're doing but it's also like... it's natural. And I don't think we can perceive time in any other way that's unbound by what we do in reality."  Darren exposes his thoughts on human nature here, wishing to transcend the limitations of human experience while simultaneously acknowledging that these limitations are unchangeable parts of our lives. I remark that it's an interesting observation and note that "we are not objective creatures."

He finishes by tipping back his cup of iced coffee and taking a sip. I had always known him to be a beverage enthusiast, who kept in mind the precise details of whatever he was drinking. These days he was in more of a coffee phase, carefully preparing his own brews every afternoon. The ice cubes audibly slosh around, clinking inside their container.

Watching the ever-darkening sky, I grow nervous and wonder if we will have time to answer all the questions. I get started on the next one as soon as I can and ask him how he would describe his past and his relationship with his past self. Darren says, "the past itself is something that I've kind of abandoned honestly." He is interrupted by his laptop running low on battery and we both agree to pause the interview while he finds his charger. When he returns, he finishes elaborating: "Locking myself into a state where I'm constantly wondering what went wrong, how it went wrong, if I could do anything, is frankly unproductive, and it took me a while until I could move past that." Like his response about going back in time, he admits that he must accept what he cannot change. "As for my past myself, I do treat it - him? - I do treat them like a separate person, and I guess that's partly because I see time the way I do, as derivatives, continuous slices on the function." He picks out a mathematical metaphor, giving his observation an air of objective detachment. "There's a degree of separation between me and the past, and my past self." I ask him to describe his past self, and he says "it really depends" on how he's feeling. 

"You could catch me in one of my crazy, colorful moods, or you could catch me being the same monochrome pleasantness as ever. And for the record, this is me in monochrome,” he elaborates in another painted metaphor. "My past self was almost notoriously inconsistent in terms of personality, and that does have to do something with my abandonment of all labels except for my name, so that could be the source of my inconsistency."  

As the interview draws to a close, I focus on the remaining questions. My mind’s eye looks onward to the foggy horizon of the future. I ask him to predict what his own future might be like. In the short-term, he says, it would "probably be... the same-ish but a little bit better, because I'm gonna get stuff done by then." He tells me he doesn't think he'd be able to make "these wide sweeping changes now. It's something that's gradual and grows slowly." He compares this to his vision of his long-term future, which he describes as "drastically different." The differences he lists off are being away from his family and his brother, and possibly being in graduate school. However, "the future has become something of a completely different reality" to him because he's separated himself so much from his past. "I'm just gonna be living I guess," he says with abrupt hopefulness. "I don't really like talking about the future much because first of all, I can't imagine it, but also... what would I do?" He wonders aloud, his train of thought trailing off. "It's difficult to imagine."

I attempt to reassure him by bringing up what he said earlier in the interview about the future and give my best shot at optimism. "You mentioned that it's more malleable than we realize, and I guess that the future being indeterminate does have a direct connection on our ability to change it. So, I think it would be okay if you don't know exactly what you're going to do in the future, because we're going to figure that out before we get there." 

The dingy external building lights automatically turn on, covering me in an artificial glow from above. When I ask him how he'd like to be remembered in the future, what puzzled me was his focus on the mechanics of maintaining this legacy rather than what he would like to be remembered for. He prefaced by saying that he was "tempted to say that I want my legacy to be unforgettable," then conceded that whatever he left behind would be forgotten eventually. 

"So maybe I would like to leave my mark on humanity in a more subtle, if also more long-term way," he says brainstorming. He briefly considers something "like the pyramids", before drawing from his aspiration for a career in biotechnology. "If I do make it down the road to biotech, and become an acclaimed researcher or inventor..." He envisions all kinds of lofty hypotheticals in his head, before arriving at the idea of encoding his name into the DNA of a species. No mentions of how he might like his friends or family to remember him, and barely any discussion of how he might see himself in the grand scheme of things. Maybe he really had no idea what his legacy would be. What seems most likely is that he didn't think of himself as significant enough to be remembered, hinted at by his wish for his legacy to be "subtle". This impression dismays me, so I prod again, refocusing the question. "How do you think the people that know you will remember you?" 

"This is gonna sound so grim, but-" 

"It's fine!" I blurt out in my concern. 

"-I probably won't be remembered. As a person, I'm not a leader, but also, I'm not a follower. Like, I'm something auxiliary." The word auxiliary registers in my mind, and I silently hope he knows I don't think of him that way. 

"Like I said, if I ever do make an impact on the world, it's probably going to be something subtle, something low-key, almost obscure, and even then, there's no guarantee it's going to last beyond a lifetime, a generation, maybe," he says, reaffirming his beliefs about himself. I want to say something, but nothing comes to mind.

After that, I thank him for his time. I hear him smirk, and clarify to let him know that, yes, that was an intentional pun. I smile back. I awkwardly improvise some closing statements, before asking him if he has any final thoughts. "Other than the disconnection issues, this was actually pretty fun," he says, pausing to think of "something poignant" to say. 

"I guess time is one of those constants in life, but how you choose to make do with it is really up to you. Like are you going to fight it? Or are you going to incorporate it in your life, or what are you going to do with it? I mean, that's the question I think you should be answering," he concludes, referring not just to me, but to all people.

When the call ends, I am alone with my thoughts, my brain repeating the word "legacy" to itself. I wondered what my own story would look like at some distant point in the future, where my recollection of events would blur, distorting facts into myths. How much control did I have over it? Would I be the one who would tell it or would someone else? I was certain, though, that Darren would be a part of mine, and I would be a part of his. I try my best to imprint the events of that day into my memory for his sake.

I instinctively check the time. The interview lasted 45 minutes, 37 seconds. At 6:45 PM, I take a picture of the school grounds to send to him. The sky's color is almost entirely drained of saturation, making way for night. The slick concrete, wet with rain showers, reflects the bleary fluorescent yellow light. It's getting late. I hop back on my bike and brace myself as I ride through the biting cold. When I get home, my clothes are slightly dampened with rain and my fingers are so numb that I have to wait for them to warm up again before I can type. I tell Darren he did "really great on the interview", and he thanks me for the compliment.

At the same time, 3,000 kilometers away in California, it is 4:45 PM. Darren recollects himself after the all the elation of talking freely to me starts to fade. The sun has set a bit more. His coffee cup rests empty, its contents slurped out, and he gets up to refill it with water to make use of the remaining ice.

On November 19, 2020, Darren sends me a condensed version of his [Year 2020 playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLY09Qalap5_febteenNX_VmWR_22RJmQS), a playlist of all the songs he liked from this year. It ranges from sorrowful indie tunes to bittersweet pop jams, from COIN and lovelytheband to Florence + The Machine and Taylor Swift, songs about longing for lovers and low self-esteem. I shuffle it, playing and replaying it over the following weeks for any inspiration I can gather. One song from the band Talkie, "Fuzzy Disco," sticks out to me. The title evokes the image of a softer take on a usually more energetic and funkier genre. Carefree vocals crest on a wave of bouncing bass, suggesting the ambiance of a high school dance. It quickly becomes my favorite song on the album. It is, as both of us would semi-ironically dub in Gen Z slang, a bop.

>"We'll take a walk in the sky, then come back down, 
Come on, you tired eyes, it’ll come around
The days and the nights, the wasted time,
I've never been the kind to give up, but this once
If I could turn the clock to yesterday, 
Well I might find a better way,
Enough to make me feel like I’d do more than survive."

I may not know Darren as well as I'd like to. Some parts of his mind remain a mystery, both to me and himself, as he has admitted. Still, I understand him. As young adults on paths towards an uncertain and perpetually turbulent future, we share a sympathetic bond in the struggle to recognize our place within the times we live in, seeing our reflections in the past and our shadows cast headlong into the future. No matter what changes, we can both be certain of the passage of time. What we do with it is up to us. The sun sets and rises again. The earth continues to slowly turn on its axis, floating through space in the grand cosmic dance. And the band plays on.
